# Telegram-pswd-manager

## Description
### General
_If you are interested in secure online experience you should have strong and different passwords for each service you use._
**Password Manager** is an application which can help you to generate and store strong passwords from different services.
To access your passwords you only need *Master Password*.
Password Manager only saves hash of usernames and passwords, so anyone who will get DB will not be able to get real creds without *Master Password*
### Realisation
This project based on *Telegram Messanger* which allows programmers to develop their own bots.
CLI version of most Password Managers limits users to use it on PC. 
At this point Telegram Bot can be used on **mobile phones, PCs and browsers** with access to the Internet.
### Telegram Bot
Using this telebot you can easily add, edit, delete any profiles (*profile - username and password for particular service*).
`Telebot is individual password manager. It means that in most cases you are the only user of the bot.`

## How does it work?
### The Idea
We can't just store passwords and usernames in DB cause in case of vulnerability in a server, hackers may gain access to your credentials what is acutally fatal.
_To prevent we are not storing usernames and passwords exactly, but store its hashes._
_Using Master Password we can encrypt credentials into hash and decrypt it back into a actual password or username._
`So your master password is the most important thing. You should have strong password in order not to be brute forced.`
### Exact Mechanism
Using **PBKDF2** algorithm we are hashing Master Password - Manager.HashPassword()
Then, using Fernet module and hash of MP we can encrypt any data we want into hash - Manager.encryptData()
Opposite proccess applies to the decryption - we provide hash of MP and using Fernet module to decrypt pre-built hash back into normal credential - Manager.decryptData()

_In order not to provide MP every time we want to encrypt or decrypt smth, I decided to use MP verificaion:_
Using MasterPswdGen.py we can build file with _salt_ and _verifier_.
Combining exact salt and MP together and appling hash-function to that we get new hash. 
If provided MP is correct hashes of pre-built verifier will be same as hash I previously mentioned.
`Important thing is that verifier cannot be used to decrypt or encrypt any data from DB cause salt used in Manager is not the same salt generated by MasterPswdGen.py module`

## Setting up

### Installation

_Firstly, make sure you have python3 installed on your computer. If not, check out this [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYXdXT2l-Gg)_
_Secondly, open CMD and enter this command: `git clone https://github.com/Yessirskiy/Telegram-pswd-manager.git` to get source-code of the project_
_Then move into working direcotory using `cd Telegram-pswd-manager` command_
_Finally install all the needed modules, using `pip install -r requirements.txt`_

### config.py
```
BOT_TOKEN = '' # Token bot from Telegram (str)
ADMIN_IDS = [] # List of admin's IDs from Telegram (int)
DB_NAME = 'pwd_manager.db' # Name of the DB file (str)
MASTERKEY_VALIDATION = 12 # How long master password can be used without re-entering, in hours (int)
CREDS_DELETE_TIMEOUT = 3 # How long message with credentials will be in chat, in minutes (then deleting) (int)
VERIFIER_FILE = 'verify.json' # Name of the file with verification
```
_Create **config.py** file in the working directory and paste code above into it._
All the parametrs are clearly explained in the comments.
How to get BOT_TOKEN:
- Follow instructions from [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots#6-botfather)
- Provide Token you got to the BOT_TOKEN, between single quotes

How to get chat_id(ADMIN_ID):
- Open Telegram and find [@getidsbot](https://t.me/getidsbot)
- Send random message to the bot and copy ID statement
- IDs should be provided in List format. If you are the only user List should contain only one ID

_I highly recommend you to stay with 12 hours for MASTERKEY VALIDATION and 3 minutes for CREDS_DELETE_TIMEOUT._
### Master Password
_As mentioned above you should have strong Master Password._
_How to create such password is clearly explained in a [great video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3NjQ9b3pgIg&t=572s)_

Launch **MasterPswdGen.py** and input your Master Password when it asks.
You will see new file with .json extension in the working directory.
`Make sure you have copy of this file stored somewhere else.`

### Launch
_Finally run **main.py** file. If you have done everyting right, the bot you have created will respond to your /start command._




